Elephant-hunting is a sport of its own. For the elephant, which through
centuries has been the one head of game hunted for profit, in the course
of time has adopted man into his scheme of things, with deep distrust.
Our nearness to him is a challenge which he will never disregard; he
comes towards us, straightly and quickly, on his own, a towering,
overwhelming structure, massive as cast iron and lithe as running water.
"What time he lifteth up himself on high, the mighty are afraid." Out go
his ears like a dragon's wings, giving him a grotesque likeness to the
small lap-dog called a papillon; his formidable trunk, crumpled up
accordion-like, rises above us like a lifted scourge. There is passion
in our meeting, positiveness on both sides; but on his side there is no
pleasure in the adventure, he is driven on by just wrath, and is
settling an ancient family feud.
In very old days the elephant, upon the roof of the earth, led an
existence deeply satisfying to himself and fit to be set up as an
example to the rest of creation: that of a being mighty and powerful
beyond anyone's attack, attacking no one. The grandiose and idyllic
modus vivendi lasted till an old Chinese painter had his eyes opened to
the sublimity of ivory as a background to his paintings, or a young
dancer of Zanzibar hers to the beauty of an ivory anklet. Then they
began to appear to all sides of him, small alarming figures in the
landscape drawing closer: the Wanderobo with his poisoned arrows, the
Arab ivory-hunter with his long silver-mounted muzzle-loader, and the
white professional elephant-killer with his heavy rifle. The
manifestation of the glory of God was turned into an object of
exploitation. Is it to be wondered at that he cannot forgive us?
Yet there is always something magnanimous about elephants. To follow a
rhino in his own country is hard work; the space that he clears in the
thorn-thicket is just a few inches too low for the hunter, and he will
have to keep his head bent a little all the time. The elephant on his
march through dense forest calmly tramples out a green fragrant tunnel,
lofty like the nave of a cathedral. I once followed a herd of elephants
for over a fortnight, walking in shade all the time. (In the end,
unexpectedly, on the top of a very steep hill and in perfect security
myself, I came upon the whole troop pacing in Indian file below me. I
did not kill any of them and never saw them again.) There is a morally
edifying quality as well in the very aspect of an elephant—on seeing
four elephants walking together on the plain, I at once felt that I had
been shown black stone sculptures of the four major Prophets. On the
chessboard the elephant takes his course, irresistible, in a straight
line. And the highest decoration of Denmark is the Order of the
Elephant.
But a lion-hunt each single time is an affair of perfect harmony, of
deep, burning, mutual desire and reverence between two truthful and
undaunted creatures, on the same wave-length. A lion on the plain bears
a greater likeness to ancient monumental stone lions than to the lion
which to-day you see in a zoo; the sight of him goes straight to the
heart. Dante cannot have been more deeply amazed and moved at the first
sight of Beatrice in a street of Florence. Gazing back into the past I
do, I believe, remember each individual lion I have seen—his coming into
the picture, his slow raising or rapid turning of the head, the strange,
snakelike swaying of his tail. "Praise be to thee, Lord, for Brother
Lion, the which is very calm, with mighty paws, and flows through the
flowing grass, red-mouthed, silent, with the roar of the thunder ready
in his chest." And he himself, catching sight of me, may have been
struck, somewhere under his royal mane, by the ring of a similar Te
Deum: "Praise be to thee, Lord, for my sister of Europe, who is young,
and has come out to me on the plain in the night."
