"Sheer habit and thoughtlessness are father and godfather to most banquets, and
it is only due to the lack of critical sense among people that one fails to
notice the utter absence of any idea in them. In the first place, women ought
never to be present at a banquet. Women may be used to advantage only in the
Greek style, as a chorus of dancers. As it is the main thing at a banquet that
there be eating and drinking, woman ought not to be present; for she cannot do
justice to what is offered; or, if she can, it is most unbeautiful. Whenever a
woman is present the matter of eating and drinking ought to be reduced to the
very slightest proportions. At most, it ought to be no more than some trifling
feminine occupation, to have something to busy one's hands with. Especially in
the country a little repast of this kind—which, by the way, should be put at
other times than the principal meals—may be extremely delightful; and if so,
always owing to the presence of the other sex. To do like the English, who let
the fair sex retire as soon as the real drinking is to start, is to fall between
two stools, for every plan ought to be a whole, and the very manner with which I
take a seat at the table and seize hold of knife and fork bears a definite
relation to this whole. In the same sense a political banquet presents an
unbeautiful ambiguity inasmuch as one does not[4] want to cut down to a very
minimum the essentials of a banquet, and yet does not wish to have the speeches
thought of as having been made over the cups.


 "So far, we are agreed, I suppose; and our number—in case anything should come
of the banquet—is correctly chosen, according to that beautiful rule: neither
more than the Muses nor fewer than the Graces. Now I demand the greatest
superabundance of everything thinkable. That is, even though everything be not
actually there, yet the possibility of having it must be at one's immediate beck
and call, aye, hover temptingly over the table, more seductive even than the
actual sight of it. I beg to be excused, however, from banqueting on sulphur-
matches or on a piece of sugar which all are to suck in turn. My demands for
such a banquet will, on the contrary, be difficult to satisfy; for the feast
itself must be calculated to arouse and incite that unmentionable longing which
each worthy participant is to bring with him. I require that the earth's
fertility be at our service, as though everything sprouted forth at the very
moment the desire for it was born. I desire a more luxurious abundance of wine
than when Mephistopheles needed but to drill holes into the table to obtain it.
I demand an illumination more splendid than have the gnomes when they lift up
the mountain on pillars and dance in a sea of blazing light. I demand what most
excites the senses, I demand their gratification by deliciously sweet perfumes,
more superb than any in the Arabian Nights. I demand a coolness which
voluptuously provokes desire and breathes relaxation on desire satisfied. I
demand a fountain's unceasing enlivenment. If Mæcenas could not sleep without
hearing the splashing of a fountain, I cannot eat without it. Do not
misunderstand me, I can eat stockfish without it, but I cannot eat at a banquet
without it; I can drink water without it, but I cannot drink wine at a banquet
without it. I demand a host of servants, chosen and comely, as if I sate at
table with the gods; I demand that there shall be music at the feast, both
strong and subdued; and I demand that it shall be an accompaniment to my
thoughts; and what concerns you, my friends, my demands regarding you are
altogether incredible. Do you see, by reason of all these demands—which are as
many reasons against it—I hold a banquet to be a pium desideratum, and am so far
from desiring a repetition of it that I presume it is not feasible even a first
time."