The Young Person arose and declared that he felt the power of the wine, which
was indeed apparent to some degree; for the blood pulsed strongly in his
temples, and his appearance was not as beautiful as before the meal. He spoke as
follows: If there be truth in the words of the poets, dear fellow-banqueters,
then unrequited love is, indeed, the greatest of sorrows. Should you require any
proof of this you need but listen to the speech of lovers. They say that it is
death, certain death; and the first time they believe it—for the space of two
weeks. The next time they say that it is death; and finally they will die
sometime—as the result of unrequited love. For that love has killed them, about
that there can obtain no doubt. And as to love's having to take hold three times
to make away with them, that is not different from the dentist's having to pull
three times before he is able to budge that firmly rooted molar. But, if
unrequited love thus means certain death, how happy am I who have never loved
and, I hope, will only achieve dying some time, and not from unrequited love!
But just this may be the greatest misfortune, for all I know, and how
unfortunate must I then be! The essence of love probably (for I speak as does a
blind man about colors), probably lies in its bliss; which is, in other words,
that the cessation of love brings death to the lover. This I comprehend very
well as in the nature of a hypothesis correlating life and death. But, if love
is to be merely by way of hypothesis, why, then lovers lay themselves open to
ridicule through their actually falling in love. If, however, love is something
real, why, then reality must bear out what lovers say about it. But did one in
real life ever hear of, or observe, such things having taken place, even if
there is hearsay to that effect? Here I perceive already one of the
contradictions in which love involves a person; for whether this is different
for those initiated, that I have no means of knowing; but love certainly does
seem to involve people in the most curious contradictions. 

There is no other relation between human beings which makes such demands on
one's ideality as does love, and yet love is never seen to have it. For this
reason alone I would be afraid of love; for I fear that it might have the power
to make me too talk vaguely about a bliss which I did not feel and a sorrow I
did not have. I say this here since I am bidden to speak on love, though
unacquainted with it—I say this in surroundings which appeal to me like a Greek
symposion; for I should otherwise not care to speak on this subject as I do not
wish to disturb any one's happiness but, rather, am content with my own
thoughts. Who knows but these thoughts are sheer imbecilities and vain
imaginings—perhaps my ignorance is explicable from the fact that I never have
learned, nor have wished to learn, from any one, how one comes to love; or from
the fact that I have never yet challenged a woman with a glance—which is
supposed to be smart—but have always lowered my eyes, unwilling to yield to an
impression before having fully made sure about the nature of the power into
whose sphere I am venturing.

At this point he was interrupted by Constantin who expostulated with him
because, by his very confession of never having been in love, he had debarred
himself from speaking. The Young Person declared that at any other time he would
gladly obey an injunction to that effect as he had often enough experienced how
tiresome it was to have to make a speech; but that in this case he would insist
upon his right. Precisely the fact that one had had no love affair, he said,
also constituted an affair of love; and he who could assert this of himself was
entitled to speak about Eros just because his thoughts were bound to take issue
with the whole sex and not with individuals. He was granted permission to speak
and continued.