Constantin spoke as follows:
 There is a time to keep silence, and a time to speak,[26] and now it
seems to be the time to speak briefly, for our young friend has spoken
much and very strangely. His vis comica has made us struggle ancipiti
proelio because his speech was full of doubts, as he himself is, sitting
there now—a perplexed man who knows not whether to laugh, or weep, or
fall in love. In fact, had I had foreknowledge of his speech, such as he
demands one should have of love, I should have forbidden him to speak;
but now it is too late. I shall bid you then, dear bellow-banqueters,
"gladsome and merry to be," and even if I cannot enforce this I shall
ask you to forget each speech so soon as it is made and to wash it down
with a single draught. 
And now as to woman, about whom I shall speak. I too have pondered about
her, and I have finally discovered the category to which she belongs. I
too have sought, but I have found, too, and I have made a matchless
discovery which I shall now communicate to you. Woman is understood
correctly only when placed in the category of "the joke.
" It is man's function to be absolute, to act in an absolute fashion, or
to give expression to the absolute. Woman's sphere lies in her
relativity. Between beings so radically different, no true reciprocal
relation can exist. Precisely in this incommensurability lies the joke.
And with woman the joke was born into the world. It is to be understood,
however, that man must know how to stick to his role of being absolute;
for else nothing is seen—that is to say, something exceedingly common is
seen, viz., that man and woman fit each other, he as a half man and she
as a half man. The joke is not an æsthetic, but an abortive ethical,
category. Its effect on thought is about the same as the impression we
receive if a man were solemnly to begin making a speech, recite a comma
or two with his pronouncement, then say "hm!"—"dash"—and then stop. Thus
with woman. One tries to cover her with the ethical category, one thinks
of human nature, one opens one's eyes, one fastens one's glances on the
most excellent maiden in question, an effort is made to redeem the
claims of the ethical demand; and then one grows ill at ease and says to
one's self: ah, this is undoubtedly a joke! 
The joke lies, indeed, in applying that category to her and measuring
her by it, because it would be idle to expect serious results from her;
but just that is the joke. Because if one could demand it of her it
would not be a joke at all. A mighty poor joke indeed it would be, to
place her under the air-pump and draw the air out of her—indeed it were
a shame; but to blow her up to supernatural size and let her imagine
herself to have attained all the ideality which a little maiden of
sixteen imagines she has, that is the beginning of the game and, indeed,
the beginning of a highly entertaining performance. No youth has half so
much imaginary ideality as a young girl, but: "We shall soon be even" as
says the tailor in the proverb; for her ideality is but an illusion. 
If one fails to consider woman from this point of view she may cause
irreparable harm; but through my conception of her she becomes harmless
and amusing. For a man there is nothing more shocking than to catch
himself twaddling. It destroys all true ideality; for one may repent of
having been a rascal, and one may feel sorry for not having meant a word
of what one said; but to have talked nonsense, sheer nonsense, to have
meant all one said and behold! it was all nonsense—that is too
disgusting for repentance incarnate to put up with. But this is not the
case with woman. She has a prescriptive right to transfigure herself—in
less than 24 hours—in the most innocent and pardonable nonsense; for far
is it from her ingenuous soul to wish to deceive one!Sure, here are the
questions based on the passage:
