I was a fairly famous doctor to the squatters of the farm, and it happened that patients came down from Limoru or Kijabe to consult me. I had been, in the
beginning of my career, miraculously lucky in a few cures, which had made my name echo in the manyattas. Later I had made some very grave mistakes, of which I
still cannot think without dismay, but they did not seem to affect my prestige; at times I felt that the people liked me better for not being infallible. This
trait in the Africans comes out in other of their relations with the Europeans. My consultation hour was vaguely from nine to ten, my consultation room the
stone-paved terrace east of my house. On most days my activity was limited to driving in the sick people to the hospital in Nairobi or up to that of the Scotch
Mission at Kikuyu, both of which were good hospitals. There would almost always be plague about somewhere in the district; with this you were bound to take the
sufferers to Nairobi plague hospital, or your farm would be put in quarantine. I was not afraid of plague, since I had been told that one would either die from
the disease or rise from it as fit as ever, and since, besides, I felt that it would be a noble thing to die from an illness to which popes and queens had
succumbed. There would likewise almost always be smallpox about, and gazing at old and young faces round me, stamped for life like thimbles, I was afraid of
smallpox, but Government regulations strictly kept us to frequent inoculations against the illness. As to other diseases like meningitis or typhoid fever,
whether I drove the patients into Nairobi or tried to cure them myself out on the farm, I was always convinced that I should not catch the sickness—my faith may
have been due to an instinct, or may have been in itself a kind of protection. The first sais that I had on the farm, Malindi—who was a dwarf, but a great man
with horses—died from meningitis actually in my arms. Most of my own practice was thus concerned with the lighter accidents of the place—broken limbs, cuts,
bruises and burns—or with coughs, children's diseases and eye diseases. At the start I knew but little above what one is taught at a first-aid course. My later
skill was mostly obtained through experiments on my patients, for a doctor's calling is demoralizing. I arrived at setting a broken arm or ankle with a splint,
advised all through the operation by the sufferer himself, who very likely might have performed it on his own, but who took pleasure in setting me to work.
Ambition a few times made me try my hand at undertakings which later I had to drop again. I much wanted to give my patients Salvarsan—which in those days was a
fairly new medicine and was given in big doses—but although my hand was steady with a rifle I was nervous about it with a syringe for intravenous injections.
Dysentery I could generally keep in check with small, often-repeated doses of Epsom salt, and malaria with quinine. Yet it was in connection with a case of
malaria that I was nearest to becoming a murderer. On a day in the beginning of the long rains Berkeley Cole came round the farm from up-country, on his way to
Nairobi. A little while after, Juma appeared to report that an old Masai Chief with his followers was outside, asking for medicine for a son of his who had been
taken ill, evidently—from the symptoms reported—with malaria. The Masai were my neighbours; if I rode across the river which formed the border of my farm I was
in their Reserve. But the Masai themselves were not always there. They trekked with their big herds of cattle from one part of the grass-land—which was about
the size of Ireland—to another, according to the rains and the condition of the grazing. When again they came round my way and set to patch up their huts of
cow-hide for a sojourn of some time, they would send over to notify me, and I would ride over to call on them.

Multiple Choice Questions: What was the author’s role among the squatters of the farm? A. She was a teacher B. She was a doctor C. She was a farmer D. She was a
trader What did the author use to treat dysentery and malaria? A. Salvarsan and quinine B. Epsom salt and quinine C. Epsom salt and Salvarsan D. Quinine and
antibiotics Who is Fathima? A. The author’s friend B. The author’s servant C. Farah’s wife D. Kamante’s sister Who is Kamante? A. The author’s friend B. The
author’s servant C. Farah’s son D. Fathima’s brother Who are the Masai? A. A tribe in South Africa B. A tribe in East Africa C. A tribe in West Africa D. A
tribe in North Africa Fill-in-the-Blanks Questions: The author had been, in the beginning of her career, miraculously lucky in a few _______, which had made her
name echo in the manyattas. Most of the author’s own practice was thus concerned with the lighter accidents of the place—broken limbs, cuts, bruises and
burns—or with _______, children’s diseases and eye diseases. The author much wanted to give her patients _______, which in those days was a fairly new medicine
and was given in big doses. The author was always convinced that she should not catch the sickness—her faith may have been due to an instinct, or may have been
in itself a kind of _______. The author felt sorry for Fathima now. The gentle midwives were busy, bending and again straightening up the girl and from time to
time knocking her in the small of the back with their fists as if to knock out the _______.