As here, after twenty-five years, I again take up episodes of my life in Africa, one figure, straight, candid, and very fine to look at, stands as doorkeeper to
all of them: my Somali servant Farah Aden. Were any reader to object that I might choose a character of greater importance, I should answer him that that would
not be possible. Farah came to meet me in Aden in 1913, before the First World War. For almost eighteen years he ran my house, my stables and safaris. I talked
to him about my worries as about my successes, and he knew of all that I did or thought. Farah, by the time I had had to give up the farm and was leaving
Africa, saw me off in Mombasa. And as I watched his dark immovable figure on the quay growing smaller and at last disappear, I felt it as if I were losing a
part of myself, as if I were having my right hand set off, and from now on would never again ride a horse or shoot with a rifle, nor be able to write otherwise
than with my left hand. Neither have I since then ridden or shot. In order to form and make up a Unity, in particular a creative Unity, the individual
components must needs be of different nature, they should even be in a sense contrasts. Two homogeneous units will never be capable of forming a whole, or their
whole at its best will remain barren. Man and woman become one, a physically and spiritually creative Unity, by virtue of their dissimilarity. A hook and an eye
are a Unity, a fastening; but with two hooks you can do nothing. A right-hand glove with its contrast the left-hand glove makes up a whole, a pair of gloves;
but two right-hand gloves you throw away. A number of perfectly similar objects do not make up a whole—a couple of cigarettes may quite well be three or nine. A
quartet is a Unity because it is made up of dissimilar instruments. An orchestra is a Unity, and may be perfect as such, but twenty double-basses striking up
the same tune are Chaos. A community of but one sex would be a blind world. When in 1940 I was in Berlin, engaged by three Scandinavian papers to write about
Nazi Germany, woman—and the whole world of woman—was so emphatically subdued that I might indeed have been walking about in such a one-sexed community. I felt a
relief then, as I watched the young soldiers marching west, to the frontier, for in a fight the adversaries become one, and the two duellists make up a Unity.
The introduction into my life of another race, essentially different from mine, in Africa became to me a mysterious expansion of my world. My own voice and song
in life there had a second set to it, and grew fuller and richer in the duet. Within the literature of the ages one particular Unity, made up of essentially
different parts, makes its appearance, disappears and again comes back: that of Master and Servant. We have met the two in rhyme, blank verse and prose, and in
the varying costumes of the centuries. Here wanders the Prophet Elisha with his servant Gehazi—between whom one would have supposed the partnership to have come
to an end after the affair with Naaman, but whom we meet in a later chapter apparently in the best of understanding. Here walk Terence's Davus and Simo, and
Plautus' Calidorus and Pseudolus. Here Don Quixote rides forth, with Sancho Panza on his mule by the croup of Rosinante. Here the Fool follows King Lear across
the heath in the storm and the black night, here Leporello waits in the street while inside the palazzo Don Giovanni "reaps his sweet reward." Phileas Fogg
struts on to the stage with one single idea in his head and versatile Passepartout at his heels. In our own streets of old Copenhagen Jeronimus and Magdelone
promenade arm in arm, while behind their broad and dignified backs Henrik and Pernille make signs to one another.

Multiple Choice Questions: Who is Farah Aden? A. The author’s friend B. The author’s Somali servant C. The author’s neighbor D. The author’s teacher When did
Farah come to meet the author? A. After the First World War B. During the First World War C. Before the First World War D. The text does not specify What is the
author’s view on unity? A. Unity can only be achieved with similar components B. Unity is best achieved with contrasting components C. Unity is not important D.
Unity can only be achieved with identical components What does the author compare a community of one sex to? A. A barren world B. A blind world C. A chaotic
world D. A perfect world What recurring unity does the author mention within literature? A. Unity of Man and Woman B. Unity of Master and Servant C. Unity of
Right and Left D. Unity of Hook and Eye Fill-in-the-Blanks Questions: Farah ran the author’s house, stables and _______. The author felt as if she were losing a
part of herself when Farah saw her off in _______. The author believes that two _______ units will never be capable of forming a whole. The author was in
_______ in 1940, writing about Nazi Germany. The author mentions the unity of Master and Servant appearing in the works of _______ and _______.

