When Fathima, Farah's wife, was to give birth to her first child, she was very
ill; for an hour or two her surroundings, and her mother herself, had given up
hope about her. Her mother, an imposing figure in my establishment, had arranged
for about a dozen Somali ladies of the first families of Nairobi to be present.
They arrived in Aly Khan's mule-traps, looking very lovely and lively, like old
Persian pictures, in their long ample skirts and veils, and filled with sympathy
and zeal. The waves of woman's world closed over Farah's house, at some distance
from the huts of my house-boys. Farah himself, grave and more subdued than I had
ever seen him, together with all other male creatures of my household, had been
shooed a hundred yards away. The women then set to heating up the room in which
the birth was taking place, to an almost unbearable heat, with charcoal in
basins, and to make the air thick with childbed-incense. I sat out there for a
while, half unconscious, not because I imagined that I could be of any use
whatever, but because I felt it to be the correct thing and expected of me.
Fathima was a very lovely creature, with big dark eyes like a doe's, so slim
that one wondered where she could possibly be storing her baby, supple in all
her movements and in daily life of a risible temper. I felt sorry for her now.
The gentle midwives were busy, bending and again straightening up the girl and
from time to time knocking her in the small of the back with their fists as if
to knock out the child. For the time that I was there I saw them dealing out
only one kind of medicine: a matron amongst them brought along an earthenware
dish, on the inner side of which a holy man of the town had drawn up, in
charcoal, a text from the Koran; the lettering was washed off carefully with
water, and the water poured into the mouth of the labouring young woman. This
great event on the farm took place at the time when the Prince of Wales—the
present Duke of Windsor—was on his first visit to the country. Among the
celebrations in his honour was a concours hippique in Nairobi, and I had entered
my Irish pony Poor-Box for the jumping competition—he was at the moment in
training at Limoru. In the midst of the bustle round me and in a moment of
things' looking very dark, I suddenly called to mind that I had promised to
bring over a bag of oats for him there, so I would have to leave for a couple of
hours. I drove away sadly, taking Kamante with me in the car. On the way back
from Limoru I came past the French Mission and remembered that the Fathers for
some time had been promising me seed of a particular kind of lettuce from
France. As I pulled up the car, Kamante, who during our drive had not said a
word, spoke to me. Fathima was a favourite with Kamante, she was the only human
being for whose intelligence I had ever heard him express any kind of respect.
"Are you," he asked me, "going into the church to beg the lady in there, who is
your friend, to help Fathima?" The lady in the church, who was my friend, was
the Virgin Mary, whose statue Kamante had seen when on Christmas night he had
accompanied me to midnight mass. I could not very well say no, so I answered
yes, and went into the church before going to the refectory. It was cool in the
church, and in the face of the highly vulgar papier mâché statue of the Virgin,
with a lily in her hand, there was something soothing and hopeful. When I came
back to my house, Fathima's baby was born, and she herself was doing well. I
congratulated her mother and Farah in his forest exile. The small boy brought
into the world that day was Ahamed, called Saufe, who later became a great
figure on the farm. Kamante said to me: "You see, Msabu, it was good that I
reminded you to ask the lady who is your friend to help Fathima." Multiple
Choice Questions: Who is Fathima? A. The author’s friend B. Farah’s wife C.
Kamante’s sister D. The author’s servant What was the condition of Fathima when
she was about to give birth to her first child? A. She was very healthy B. She
was very ill C. She was very excited D. She was very calm What did the women do
to help Fathima during her labor? A. They heated up the room and made the air
thick with childbed-incense B. They sang songs to soothe her C. They read
stories to distract her D. They massaged her back Who is Kamante? A. The
author’s friend B. Farah’s son C. The author’s servant D. Fathima’s brother What
did Kamante suggest the author to do for Fathima? A. To bring her food B. To
read her a story C. To ask the lady in the church for help D. To sing her a song
Fill-in-the-Blanks Questions: Fathima was a very lovely creature, with big dark
eyes like a _______. The author had entered her Irish pony _______ for the
jumping competition. The lady in the church, who was the author’s friend, was
the _______. When the author came back to her house, Fathima’s baby was _______.
The small boy brought into the world that day was _______, who later became a
great figure on the farm.