"You see, that's the way of the world." The mother duck licked her bill because she wanted the eel's head for herself. "Stir your legs. Bustle about, and mind
that you bend your necks to that old duck over there. She's the noblest of us all, and has Spanish blood in her. That's why she's so fat. See that red rag
around her leg? That's a wonderful thing, and the highest distinction a duck can get. It shows that they don't want to lose her, and that she's to have special
attention from man and beast. Shake yourselves! Don't turn your toes in. A well-bred duckling turns his toes way out, just as his father and mother do-this way.
So then! Now duck your necks and say quack!" They did as she told them, but the other ducks around them looked on and said right out loud, "See here! Must we
have this brood too, just as if there weren't enough of us already? And-fie! what an ugly-looking fellow that duckling is! We won't stand for him." One duck
charged up and bit his neck. "Let him alone," his mother said. "He isn't doing any harm." "Possibly not," said the duck who bit him, "but he's too big and
strange, and therefore he needs a good whacking." "What nice-looking children you have, Mother," said the old duck with the rag around her leg. "They are all
pretty except that one. He didn't come out so well. It's a pity you can't hatch him again." "That can't be managed, your ladyship," said the mother. "He isn't
so handsome, but he's as good as can be, and he swims just as well as the rest, or, I should say, even a little better than they do. I hope his looks will
improve with age, and after a while he won't seem so big. He took too long in the egg, and that's why his figure isn't all that it should be." She pinched his
neck and preened his feathers. "Moreover, he's a drake, so it won't matter so much. I think he will be quite strong, and I'm sure he will amount to something."
"The other ducklings are pretty enough," said the old duck. "Now make yourselves right at home, and if you find an eel's head you may bring it to me." So they
felt quite at home. But the poor duckling who had been the last one out of his egg, and who looked so ugly, was pecked and pushed about and made fun of by the
ducks, and the chickens as well. "He's too big," said they all. The turkey gobbler, who thought himself an emperor because he was born wearing spurs, puffed up
like a ship under full sail and bore down upon him, gobbling and gobbling until he was red in the face. The poor duckling did not know where he dared stand or
where he dared walk. He was so sad because he was so desperately ugly, and because he was the laughing stock of the whole barnyard. So it went on the first day,
and after that things went from bad to worse. The poor duckling was chased and buffeted about by everyone. Even his own brothers and sisters abused him. "Oh,"
they would always say, "how we wish the cat would catch you, you ugly thing." And his mother said, "How I do wish you were miles away." The ducks nipped him,
and the hens pecked him, and the girl who fed them kicked him with her foot. So he ran away; and he flew over the fence. The little birds in the bushes darted
up in a fright. "That's because I'm so ugly," he thought, and closed his eyes, but he ran on just the same until he reached the great marsh where the wild ducks
lived. There he lay all night long, weary and disheartened. When morning came, the wild ducks flew up to have a look at their new companion. "What sort of
creature are you?" they asked, as the duckling turned in all directions, bowing his best to them all. "You are terribly ugly," they told him, "but that's
nothing to us so long as you don't marry into our family." Poor duckling! Marriage certainly had never entered his mind. All he wanted was for them to let him
lie among the reeds and drink a little water from the marsh.