I have the great good luck in life that when I sleep I dream, and my dreams are always beautiful. The nightmare, with its squint-eyed combination of
claustrophobia and horror vacui, I know from other people's accounts only, and mostly, for the last twenty years, from books and theatre. This gift of dreaming
runs in my family, it is highly valued by all of us and makes us feel that we have been favoured above other human beings. An old aunt of mine asked to have
written on her tombstone: "She saw many a hard day. But her nights were sweet." But our beautiful dreams are not confined to the spheres of the idyll or the
child's play, or to any such sphere as in the life of day-time is considered safe or pleasant. Horrible events take place in them, monsters appear, abysses
open, wild turbulent flights and pursuits are familiar features of theirs. Only, on entering their world, horror changes hue. Monstrosity and monsters, Hell
itself—they turn to favour and to prettiness. I have read or been told that in a book of etiquette of the seventeenth century the very first rule forbids you to
tell your dreams to other people, since they cannot possibly be of interest to them. I do not want to sin against seventeenth-century good manners and am not,
here, going to report to my readers any particular dream of mine. But since dreams in general to me are a matter of interest, I shall set down a few general
remarks about them. Should these remarks turn out somewhat vague and hazy, as if shimmering to the eyes, the reader will have to forbear with me. It is in the
nature of things. Dreams, like smells, decline to yield up their inmost being to words. The first characteristic of my dreams is this: I move in a world deeply
and sweetly familiar to me, a world which belongs to me and to which I myself belong more intensely than is ever the case in my waking existence. Yet I do not
in the dream meet anybody or anything which, outside of it, I know or have ever known. It has happened to me, as a child, to dream of a particularly dear
dog—then I at once realized that Natty Bumppo had gone from the world of the living—but otherwise those cherished places within, or towards, which I travel,
those friends, infinitely dear to my heart, whom I am rushing forward to meet and from whom I cannot bear to part, I have never seen. Only during one time of my
life, and only in connection with one kind of places and people, have phenomena of an outer world found their way into my dreams. It was in itself to me a
strange and stirring experience. The second characteristic of my dreams is their vastness, their quality of infinite space. I move in mighty landscapes, among
tremendous heights, depths and expanses and with unlimited views to all sides. The loftiness and airiness of the dream come out again in its colour scheme of
rare, luminous blues and violets, and mystically transparent browns—all of which I promise myself to remember in the day-time, yet there can never recall. Dream
trees are very much taller than day-time trees; I vow to myself to keep in mind that such be the real height of trees, yet when I wake up I fail to do so. Long
perspectives stretch before me, distance is the password of the scenery, at times I feel that the fourth dimension is within reach. I fly, in dream, to any
altitude, I dive into bottomless, clear, bottle-green waters. It is a weightless world. Its very atmosphere is joy, its crowning happiness, unreasonably or
against reason, is that of triumph. For we have in the dream forsaken our allegiance to the organizing, controlling and rectifying forces of the world, the
Universal Conscience. We have sworn fealty to the wild, incalculable, creative forces, the Imagination of the Universe. To the Conscience of the world we may
address ourselves in prayer, it will faithfully reward its faithful servants according to their desert, and its highest award is peace of mind.