When, on the farm, I was called upon to give judgment in matters between my Mohammedan people, I looked up rules and regulations in the manual of Mohammedan
law, Minhaj et Talibin. It is a thick and heavy, highly imposing book to have carried about with you, a surprising work as well to a North European mind in its
taboos and recommendations, enlightening as to the Mohammedan view of life, infinitely detailed in its regulations on legal purity, prayer, fasting and
distribution of alms and particularly upon woman and her position in the community of the Orthodox. "The law," the classic states, "forbids a man to clothe
himself in silk. But a woman may wear clothes of silk and should do so whenever this be in all decency possible to her." The Somali whom I knew did, however,
wear silk, but Farah explained to me that they would do so only when outside their own country and in the service of other people—and surely my old valued
friend Ali bin Salim of Mombasa, or the old Indian high priest who came to see me on the farm, wore but the finest and most delicate wools. The book also lays
down as law that a husband shall supply his wife not only with the necessary nourishment, lodgings and clothes, but that he shall also give her such and such
luxuries, within his means, which are truly worthy of her and will make her truly value her husband. "In the case, however," it adds, "of a woman of remarkable
beauty, jurists may find themselves not entirely in accordance and will have to weigh the matter between them." The very grave and somewhat pedantic book thus
registers woman's beauty as an indisputable, juridical asset in existence. They rush forth, these warriors of the great fantasias, to meet the will of God—his
adorable will—as the Jews rush forth to meet the Sabbath: "Get thee up, brethren, to welcome the bride!" Or David, King of Israel, in his Psalm 119: "O how love
I thy law!" They are a communion of yes-sayers, they are in love with danger, with death and with God. As Job's laments are not silenced by expositions of the
justice and mercy of God, but it is before the revelation of God's greatness that the complainer surrenders and consents, the Prophet surrenders and consents:
"God is great." In the same way did Farah consent, when after three weeks' hard tracking we came up close to a herd of elephants and I shot and missed, and the
elephants marched away so that we never saw them again. In the same way did he consent when in a year of drought, news was brought him from Somaliland that half
his camels had perished, and when I told him of Denys Finch-Hatton's death: "God is great." It is a general notion among Christians that Mohammedanism is more
intolerant than Christianity, but such is not my own experience. There were three great prophets—Nebbes—Farah told me, Mohammed, Jesus and Moses. He would not
recognize Christ as the Son of God, for God could have no son in the flesh, but he would agree that he had no human father. He named him Isa ben Mariammo. About
Mariammo he spoke much, praising her beauty and virginity—she had, he said, been walking in her mother's garden when an angel had brushed her shoulder with his
wing; through this she had conceived. He smacked his own small son Saufe because he repeated some words of abuse about the Virgin which naughty Kikuyu totos
from the Scotch Mission had taught him. When in the thirties I was staying in the south of England with Denys' brother, the Earl of Winchilsea, the painter John
Philpot came down to paint the portrait of my hostess, who was very lovely. He had travelled much in North Africa, and on an afternoon when we were walking
together in the park he recounted to me an experience of his from there. In the First World War, he said, he had had a shellshock or a nervous breakdown; he
would never feel sure that he was doing what he ought to do.