In the narrow streets of the big town, toward evening when the sun was setting
and the clouds shone like gold on the chimney tops, people would hear a strange
sound like that of a church bell. But they heard it only for a few moments
before it was lost in the rumble of city carriages and the voices of the
multitudes, for such noises are very distracting. "Now the evening bell is
ringing," people used to say. "The sun is setting." People who were outside the
town, where the houses were more scattered, with little gardens or fields
between them, could see the evening sky in even more splendor and hear the bell
more distinctly. It was as if the tones came from some church, buried in the
silent and fragrant depths of the forest, and people looked solemnly in that
direction. A long time passed, and people began to say to each other, "I wonder
if there really is a church out there in the woods? That bell has a mysterious,
sweet tone. Let's go out there and see what it looks like." So the rich people
drove out, and the poor people walked out, but to all of them it seemed a very
long way. When they reached a grove of willows on the outskirts of the woods,
they sat down and looked up into the branches and imagined they were really in
the heart of the forest. The town confectioner came out and set up his tent
there, and then another confectioner came, and he hung a bell right above his
tent; but the bell had no clapper and was all tarred over as a protection
against the rain. When the people went home again, they said it had all been
very romantic, much more fun than a tea party. Three people even said that they
had gone right through the forest to the far side and had still heard the
strange sound of the bell, only then it seemed to be coming from the direction
of town. One of these even wrote a poem about the bell and compared its tones to
those of a mother singing to a beloved child-no melody could be sweeter than the
tones of that bell. The Emperor of the country heard about the bell and issued a
solemn proclamation promising that whoever discovered the source of the lovely
sounds would receive the title of "Bell Ringer to the World," even it there were
not really a bell there at all. Of course, a great many people went to the woods
now to try to gain that fine title, but only one of them came back with some
kind of an explanation. No one had been deep enough into the forest-neither had
he, for that matter-but just the same, he said the sound was made by a very
large owl in an old hollow tree, a wise owl which continually knocked its head
against the trunk of the tree. He wasn't quite sure whether the sound came from
the bird's head or from the hollow trunk, but still he was appointed "Public
Bell Ringer Number One," and every year he wrote a little treatise about the
remarkable old owl. No one was much the wiser for it. Now, on a certain
Confirmation Day, the minister had preached a very beautiful and moving sermon;
the children who were confirmed were deeply touched by it. It was a tremendously
important day in their lives, for on this day they were leaving childhood behind
and becoming grown-up persons. Their infant souls would take wing into the
bodies of adults. It was a glorious, sunny day, and after the confirmation the
children walked together out of the town, and from the depths of the woods the
strange tolling of the bell came with a mysterious clear sweetness. At once all
the children decided to go into the woods and find the bell. All except three,
that is to say. The first of these three just had to go home and try on a new
ball dress; for that forthcoming ball was the very reason she had been confirmed
at this time, otherwise she would have had to wait until next year's ceremony. 
Multiple Choice Questions: What did people hear in the evening in the big town?
a) The sound of carriages b) The sound of a church bell c) The voices of the
multitudes d) The sound of the wind Where did people think the sound of the bell
was coming from? a) From a church in the woods b) From the town confectioner’s
tent c) From the grove of willows d) From the town center What did the Emperor
promise to whoever discovered the source of the bell sound? a) A reward of gold
b) The title of “Bell Ringer to the World” c) A position in his court d) A piece
of land in the woods Who was appointed “Public Bell Ringer Number One”? a) The
town confectioner b) The person who said the sound was made by a large owl c)
The Emperor d) The minister Why did one of the children have to go home after
the Confirmation Day ceremony? a) To help her parents b) To try on a new ball
dress c) To study for an exam d) To prepare dinner Fill-in-the-blank Questions:
People who were outside the town could see the evening sky in even more ________
and hear the bell more distinctly. When the people went home again, they said it
had all been very ________, much more fun than a tea party. The Emperor of the
country heard about the bell and issued a solemn ________ promising that whoever
discovered the source of the lovely sounds would receive the title of “Bell
Ringer to the World.” The person appointed “Public Bell Ringer Number One” said
the sound was made by a very large ________ in an old hollow tree. On a certain
Confirmation Day, the children who were confirmed were deeply ________ by the
minister’s sermon.

