When Cockatoo all at once begins to plume himself like a duck which is gorged with food, and then emits the word "Marian," everybody will laugh, and so will I. I suppose the spectator finds it comical that Cockatoo, who doesn't love Marian at all, should be on such intimate terms with her. But suppose, now, that Cockatoo does love Marian. Would that be comical still? To me it would; and the comical would seem to me to lie in love's having become capable of being expressed in such fashion. Whether now this has been the custom since the beginning of the world makes no difference whatsoever, for the comical has the prescriptive right from all eternity to be present in contradictions—and here is a contradiction. There is really nothing comical in the antics of a manikin since we see some one pulling the strings. But to be a manikin at the beck of something inexplicable is indeed comical, for the contradiction lies in our not seeing any sensible reason why one should have to twitch now this leg and now that. Hence, if I cannot explain what I am doing, I do not care to do it; and if I cannot understand the power into whose sphere I am venturing, I do not care to surrender myself to that power. And if love is so mysterious a law which binds together the extremest contradictions, then who will guarantee that I might not, one day, become altogether confused? Still, that does not concern me so much.
Again, I have heard that some lovers consider the behavior of other lovers ridiculous. I cannot conceive how this ridicule is justified, for if this law of love be a natural law, then all lovers are subject to it; but if it be the law of their own choice, then those laughing lovers ought to be able to explain all about love; which, however, they are unable to do. But in this respect I understand this matter better as it seems a convention for one lover to laugh at the other because he always finds the other lover ridiculous, but not himself. If it be ridiculous to kiss an ugly girl, it is also ridiculous to kiss a pretty one; and the notion that doing this in some particular way should entitle one to cast ridicule on another who does it differently, is but presumptuousness and a conspiracy which does not, for all that, exempt such a snob from laying himself open to the ridicule which invariably results from the fact that no one is able to explain what this act of kissing signifies, whereas it is to signify all—to signify, indeed, that the lovers desire to belong to each other in all eternity; aye, what is still more amusing, to render them certain that they will. Now, if a man should suddenly lay his head on one side, or shake it, or kick out with his leg and, upon my asking him why he did this, should answer "To be sure I don't know, myself, I just happened to do so, next time I may do something different, for I did it unconsciously"—ah, then I would understand him quite well. But if he said, as the lovers say about their antics, that all bliss lay therein, how could I help finding it ridiculous—just as I thought that other man's motions ridiculous, to be sure in a different sense, until he restrained my laughter by declaring that they did not signify anything. For by doing so he removed the contradiction which is the basic cause of the comical. It is not at all comical that the insignificant is declared to signify nothing, but it is very much so if it be asserted to signify all.
As regards involuntary actions, the contradiction arises at the very outset because involuntary actions are not looked for in a free rational being. Thus if one supposed that the Pope had a coughing spell the very moment he was to place the crown on Napoleon's head; or that bride and groom in the most solemn moment of the wedding ceremony should fall to sneezing—these would be examples of the comical. That is, the more a given action accentuates the free rational being, the more comical are involuntary actions.

Multiple Choice Questions:
What does the author find comical about Cockatoo’s behavior? a. Cockatoo plumes himself like a duck. b. Cockatoo emits the word “Marian”. c. Cockatoo doesn’t love Marian but is on intimate terms with her. d. Cockatoo loves Marian.
According to the author, what is the basic cause of the comical? a. The contradiction in actions. b. The inability to explain actions. c. The insignificance of actions. d. The unconsciousness of actions.
What does the author think about lovers who find other lovers’ behavior ridiculous? a. They are justified. b. They are presumptuous. c. They are amusing. d. They are confused.
What does the author find ridiculous about the act of kissing? a. It is done unconsciously. b. It signifies nothing. c. It signifies everything. d. It is done differently by different people.
What examples does the author give of involuntary actions that would be comical? a. The Pope coughing while crowning Napoleon. b. Bride and groom sneezing during their wedding ceremony. c. A man suddenly shaking his head or kicking out with his leg. d. Both a and b.
Fill-in-the-Blanks Questions:
The author finds it comical that love has become capable of being expressed in such a ________.
The author does not care to do something if he cannot ________ what he is doing.
The author believes that if love is a natural law, then all ________ are subject to it.
The author finds it ridiculous that no one is able to explain what the act of ________ signifies.
The author believes that the contradiction in ________ actions is the basic cause of the comical.
